


User Commands                                           C2LOUT(1)



NAME
     c2lout - convert C and C++ source code into Lout

SYNOPSIS
     c2lout [ options ] Cfiles...

DESCRIPTION
     Reformat C and C++ source code for input to the  Lout  docu-
     ment  formatting  system, taking care of comments, character
     strings, tab characters, etc.

     c2lout reads the named C and C++ files and  produces  output
     suitable for input to lout -s.  Thus,

          c2lout foo.c | lout -s | lpr

     will print foo.c on a PostScript printer.   Each  file  will
     start on a new page, preceded by its name in bold.

OPTIONS
     -pfixed
          Use a fixed width font (the default).

     -pvarying
          Use a varying-width italic font  with  non-italic  bold
          keywords.

     -psymbol
          Use a varying-width italic font with mathematical  sym-
          bols and non-italic bold keywords.

     -n   Do not print the file name before each C or C++ file.

     -f font
          Select a font family.  The  default  is  -fCourier  for
          -pfixed, and -fTimes for -pvarying and -psymbol.

     -s size
          Select a Lout font size.  The default is -s9p  (meaning
          9  points)  for  -pfixed,  and  -s10p for -pvarying and
          -psymbol.  These work well with 80-character-wide  pro-
          grams.

     -v vsize
          Select a Lout vertical inter-line gap.  The default  is
          -v1.1fx  meaning  1.1 times the font size measured from
          baseline to baseline.

     -t num
          Set the tab interval  to  num  characters  (default  is
          -t8).

     -T width
          Without this option, c2lout simulates tabs with spaces.
          With this option, c2lout simulates tabs with Lout tabu-
          lation operators; width is the width of one tab  inter-
          val  in  the final print, measured in Lout units.  This
          guarantees alignment of characters following tabs  even
          with  varying-width  fonts,  provided  width  is suffi-
          ciently large.  For example, -T0.5i produces  half-inch
          tab intervals.

     -u   Print usage information on stderr and exit.

     -V   Print version information on stderr and exit.

  Raw Mode
     There is a raw mode usage of c2lout invoked  by  a  -r  flag
     (must be the first argument).  This converts one C file into
     Lout-readable source without any heading or trailing  infor-
     mation.  Synopsis:

          c2lout  -r  -i infile  -o outfile   -e errfile   -t num
          -T width

     Users should never need this mode; it is  invoked  automati-
     cally  from  within  Lout  by the @CP symbol from the cprint
     package (see reference).

SEE ALSO
     lout(1), lpr(1), ghostview(1).

REFERENCES
     Jeffrey H. Kingston, A User's Guide  to  the  Lout  Document
     Formatting System, Chapter 11.

AUTHOR
     Jeffrey H. Kingston
